README.md, before:

![My image](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/img/running_icon.png)


# FASMA 2.0
Stellar spectral analysis package. FASMA delivers the atmospheric stellar parameters (effective temperature, surface gravity, metallicity, microturbulence, macroturbulence, rotational velocity) and chemical abundances of 12 elements.

The python code is wrapped around the spectral synthesis package in fortran: [MOOG](http://www.as.utexas.edu/~chris/moog.html).

Contact here for bugs: tsantaki@arcetri.astro.it

# Installation
Installing FASMA requires a few simple steps. FASMA requires MOOG which creates the synthetic spectra.
First, edit line 29 of the [`Moogsilent.f`](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/FASMA/MOOG/Moogsilent.f)
in the `FASMA/MOOG` folder depending on the user's machine:

     "mac" = Intel-based Apple Mac

     "pcl" = a PC or desktop running some standard linux like Redhat

     "uni" = a machine running Unix, specifically Sun Solaris

Then run the `install_fasma.sh` file with the following commands. The user will be asked system requirements:
"rh64" for 64-bit linux system, "rh" for 32-bit linux system, "maclap" for mac laptop, "macdesk" for mac desktop.

```
chmod +x install_fasma.sh
.\install_fasma.sh
```

A list of basic packages will be installed automatically with pip (see [requirements](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/requirements.txt).

More instructions about MOOG are [here](http://www.as.utexas.edu/~chris/moog.html). FASMA runs with python 3.

# Usage
FASMA is so easy. You can run FASMA from the terminal by configuring the options in the `StarMe_synth.cfg` file
and then run in the working directory:

```
fasma
```

A small tutorial is given [here](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/manual/Manual_fasma.pdf)
FASMA includes a log file `captain.log` every time it is used which catches errors in order to inform the user.

For large lists of stars, it is preferable to use the terminal version of FASMA.
The configuration options are added from a dictionary.

```
from FASMA import fasma

options = {'observations':'/home/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/spectra/Sun_HARPS.fits', 'minimize':True, 'plot':True}
driver = fasma(**options)
output = driver.result()
```

The output is a dictionary with the final parameters.

## Configuration file

The complete list of options of the configuration file has the following form with the correct paths for the input files (see [manual](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/manual/Manual_fasma.pdf) for examples):

```
star:
  teff: 5777
  logg: 4.44
  feh: 0.0
  vmac: 3.21
  vsini: 1.9
  vt: 1.0
  MOOGv: 2014
  damping: 1
  element: Na
  fix_feh: False
  fix_logg: False
  fix_teff: False
  fix_vmac: False
  fix_vsini: False
  fix_vt: False
  intervals_file: /home/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/rawLinelist/intervals_elements.lst
  limb: 0.6
  linelist: /home/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/rawLinelist/elements.lst
  minimize: False
  model: apogee_kurucz
  observations: /home/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/spectra/Sun_HARPS.fits
  plot: False
  plot_res: False
  refine: False
  resolution: None
  save: False
  snr: None
  step_flux: 3.0
  step_wave: 0.01
```

The configuration file is space sensitive and it can include only the values which
are other than the defaults.

FASMA includes the line list for the derivation of stellar parameters (`linelist.lst`), the list of the spectral regions for the spectral synthesis (`intervals.lst`) as tested in [Tsantaki et al. (2018)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018MNRAS.473.5066T/abstract). For the chemical abundance determination, FASMA incorporates the line list of 12 elements (`elements.lst`) and the intervals (`intervals_elements.lst`) from [Adibekyan et al. (2015)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2015A%26A...583A..94A/abstract) . The above lists are in the `rawLinelist` folder. The correct paths should be provided in the `StarMe_synth.cfg` file.

# Outputs

Assuming FASMA works well, the delivered stellar parameters are saved in the `synthresults.dat` and for the
chemical abundances in the `synthresults_elements.dat`. The model atmosphere produced by the interpolation from
the model grid is created in the `out.atm` file. The output synthetic spectrum of MOOG is in `summary.out`. The
`linelist.moog` contains the line list in the format of MOOG and `result.out` is the summary of the parameters used
for the synthetic spectrum. The MOOG configuration file is `batch.par` and its options are also set from the  `StarMe_synth.cfg` file.

# AUTHORS

   * [M. Tsantaki](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki)
   * [D. Andreasen](https://github.com/DanielAndreasen)
   * [G. Teixeira](https://github.com/gdcteixeira)

Commit message:

StarMe_synth.cfg -> config.yml; captain.log -> fasma.log

README.md, after:

![My image](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/img/running_icon.png)


# FASMA 2.0
Stellar spectral analysis package. FASMA delivers the atmospheric stellar parameters (effective temperature, surface gravity, metallicity, microturbulence, macroturbulence, rotational velocity) and chemical abundances of 12 elements.

The python code is wrapped around the spectral synthesis package in fortran: [MOOG](http://www.as.utexas.edu/~chris/moog.html).

Contact here for bugs: tsantaki@arcetri.astro.it

# Installation
Installing FASMA requires a few simple steps. FASMA requires MOOG which creates the synthetic spectra.

Run the installation script `./install_fasma.sh` file with the following commands. The user will be asked system requirements:
"rh64" for 64-bit linux system, "rh" for 32-bit linux system, "maclap" for mac laptop, "macdesk" for mac desktop.

A list of basic packages will be installed automatically with pip (see [requirements](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/requirements.txt).

More instructions about MOOG are [here](http://www.as.utexas.edu/~chris/moog.html). FASMA runs with python 3.

# Usage
FASMA is so easy. You can run FASMA from the terminal by configuring the options in the `config.yml` file
and then run in the working directory:

```
fasma
```

A small tutorial is given [here](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/manual/Manual_fasma.pdf)
FASMA includes a log file `fasma.log` every time it is used which catches errors in order to inform the user.

For large lists of stars, it is preferable to use the terminal version of FASMA.
The configuration options are added from a dictionary.

```
from FASMA import fasma

options = {'observations': '/home/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/spectra/Sun_HARPS.fits',
           'minimize': True,
           'plot':True}
result = fasma(**options)
result.save_to_file('my_results.csv', append=True)
```

The output is a dictionary with the final parameters, and can be saved to a file (appended to previous results if needed).

## Configuration file

The complete list of options of the configuration file has the following form with the correct paths for the input files (see [manual](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki/FASMA-synthesis/blob/master/manual/Manual_fasma.pdf) for examples):

```
star:
  teff: 5777
  logg: 4.44
  feh: 0.0
  vmac: 3.21
  vsini: 1.9
  vt: 1.0
  MOOGv: 2014
  damping: 1
  element: Na
  fix_feh: False
  fix_logg: False
  fix_teff: False
  fix_vmac: False
  fix_vsini: False
  fix_vt: False
  intervals_file: /home/user/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/rawLinelist/intervals_elements.lst
  limb: 0.6
  linelist: /home/user/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/rawLinelist/elements.lst
  minimize: False
  model: apogee_kurucz
  observations: /home/user/FASMA-synthesis/FASMA/spectra/Sun_HARPS.fits
  plot: False
  plot_res: False
  refine: False
  resolution: None
  save: False
  snr: None
  step_flux: 3.0
  step_wave: 0.01
```

The configuration file is space sensitive and it can include only the values which
are other than the defaults.

FASMA includes the line list for the derivation of stellar parameters (`linelist.lst`), the list of the spectral regions for the spectral synthesis (`intervals.lst`) as tested in [Tsantaki et al. (2018)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018MNRAS.473.5066T/abstract). For the chemical abundance determination, FASMA incorporates the line list of 12 elements (`elements.lst`) and the intervals (`intervals_elements.lst`) from [Adibekyan et al. (2015)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2015A%26A...583A..94A/abstract). The above lists are in the `rawLinelist` folder. The correct paths should be provided in the `config.yml` file.

# Outputs

The delivered stellar parameters are saved in the `synthresults.dat` and for the
chemical abundances in the `synthresults_elements.dat`. The model atmosphere produced by the interpolation from
the model grid is created in the `out.atm` file. The output synthetic spectrum of MOOG is in `summary.out`. The
`linelist.moog` contains the line list in the format of MOOG and `result.out` is the summary of the parameters used
for the synthetic spectrum. The MOOG configuration file is `batch.par` and its options are also set from the `config.yml` file.

# AUTHORS

   * [M. Tsantaki](https://github.com/MariaTsantaki)
   * [D. Andreasen](https://github.com/DanielAndreasen)
   * [G. Teixeira](https://github.com/gdcteixeira)
